.TH "DL-DISTRO" "1" "August  2, 2025" "dl-distro v2.4.3" "dl-distro Manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
dl-distro - Bash script for downloading and verifying OS images.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIdl-distro\fR [OPTIONS]

\fIdl-distro\fR -d <DISTRO|JSON_QUERY> [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
dl-distro aims to make downloading and verifying OS images quick and easy.

It uses \fBjq\fR for data retrieval, \fBwget\fR for downloading, \fBgpg\fR for
signature verification, and validates checksums with the relevant algorithm.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a, --auto-update
.RS
Toggle automatic updating of the local JSON file.
.RE

.TP
.B -c, --conf-file
.RS
Generate a config file with default values.
.RE

.TP
.B -d, --distro <DISTRO|JSON_QUERY>
.RS
Specify a distribution by its short name or a JSON query.
.RE

.TP
.B -D, --delete-key <KEY_ID>
.RS
Delete a stored GPG key using its GPG key ID.
.RE

.TP
.B -h, --help
.RS
Display help message containing options and distributions available.
.RE

.TP
.B -i, --import-key <KEY_FILE>
.RS
Import a GPG key from a key file.
.RE

.TP
.B -l, --list-keys
.RS
List the stored GPG keys.
.RE

.TP
.B -L, --list-distros
.RS
List the supported distributions.
.RE

.TP
.B -n, --no-verify
.RS
Skip GPG, Minisign, or Signify key fetching and verification.
.RE

.TP
.B -p, --path <PATH>
.RS
Download image to specified directory.
.RE

.TP
.B -P, --purge-data
.RS
Purge ALL the stored data. Includes GPG, Minisign, Signify keys and the JSON
file.
.RE

.TP
.B -s, --spider
.RS
Instead of downloading, return an HTTP status for URLs.
.RE

.TP
.B -u, --update-json
.RS
Update the locally stored JSON file.
.RE

.TP
.B -V, --version
.RS
Print dl-distro's current version.
.RE

.SH SUPPORTED DISTRIBUTIONS
.TS
tab(|);
l l l.
\fBalma\fR | AlmaLinux OS | https://almalinux.org
\fBalpine\fR | Alpine Linux | https://alpinelinux.org
\fBarch\fR | Arch Linux | https://archlinux.org
\fBcachy\fR | CachyOS | https://cachyos.org
\fBdebian\fR | Debian | https://debian.org
\fBdragora\fR | Dragora GNU/Linux-Libre | https://dragora.org
\fBfedora\fR | Fedora Linux | https://fedoraproject.org
\fBghostbsd\fR | GhostBSD | https://ghostbsd.org
\fBgparted\fR | GParted Live | https://gparted.org
\fBguix\fR | Guix System | https://guix.gnu.org
\fBhyperbola\fR | Hyperbola GNU/Linux-libre | https://hyperbola.info
\fBkali\fR | Kali Linux | https://kali.org
\fBmint\fR | Linux Mint | https://linuxmint.com
\fBmxlinux\fR | MX Linux | https://mxlinux.org
\fBnix\fR | NixOS | https://nixos.org
\fBnobara\fR | Nobara | https://nobaraproject.org
\fBopenbsd\fR | OpenBSD | https://openbsd.org
\fBopensuse\fR | openSUSE | https://opensuse.org
\fBparabola\fR | Parabola GNU/Linux-libre | https://parabola.nu
\fBparch\fR | Parch GNU/Linux | https://parchlinux.com/en
\fBparrot\fR | Parrot OS | https://parrotsec.org
\fBpop\fR | Pop!_OS | https://pop.system76.com
\fBpure\fR | PureOS | https://pureos.net
\fBqubes\fR | Qubes OS | https://qubes-os.org
\fBrocky\fR | Rocky Linux | https://rockylinux.org
\fBslackware\fR | Slackware Linux | http://slackware.com
\fBsolus\fR | Solus | https://getsol.us
\fBtails\fR | Tails | https://tails.net
\fBtinycore\fR | Tiny Core | http://tinycorelinux.net
\fBtrisquel\fR | Trisquel GNU/Linux | https://trisquel.info
\fBubuntu\fR | Ubuntu | https://ubuntu.com
\fBvoid\fR | Void Linux | https://voidlinux.org
\fBwhonix\fR | Whonix | https://whonix.org
\fBzorin\fR | Zorin OS | https://zorin.com/os
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
dl-distro
Main menu with all distributions. Pick one and choose an image to download.

.TP
dl-distro -d debian
Provide a distribution name to skip the main menu. This will prompt you with
additional choice menus, if necessary.

.TP
dl-distro -d debian.netinst.amd64
You can skip the menus and start a download directly if you provide a JSON
query. The names used in the JSON query correspond directly to those in the
menus.

.TP
dl-distro -d debian.netinst.amd64 -p ~/Downloads
Download and verify the latest Debian network installer amd64 image, saving to
the ~/Downloads directory.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B CONFIG DIRECTORY
The config directory is \fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/dl-distro\fR. If
\fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR is unset, the directory will be
\fI$HOME/.config/dl-distro\fR.

\fIdl-distro.conf\fR is used to store dl-distro's config. Below are the
variables you can set. Values shown are default values used in the script,
please use quotes:

.RS
.TP
\fB    default_download_dir\fR="$PWD"
By default, dl-distro will use the \fB$PWD\fR variable if no download path is
provided with \fB-p\fR. To always download to a specific path, change this
variable.
.TP
\fB    auto_update_enabled\fR="true"
By default, dl-distro will download the JSON file from the master branch before
each run, ensuring always up-to-date data.
.TP
\fB    verification_enabled\fR="true"
Changing to \fBfalse\fR will disable signature key fetching and verification at
script runtime.
.TP
\fB    spider_mode_enabled\fR="false"
Changing to \fBtrue\fR will enable spider mode at runtime, returning an HTTP
status for URL's instead of downloading.
.TP
\fB    manual_download_enabled\fR="false"
Changing to \fBtrue\fR will enable manual downloads at runtime, displaying
step-by-step instructions for downloading and verifying the image.
.TP
\fB    gpg_keyserver\fR="hkps://keyserver.ubuntu.com"
Change the keyserver used to fetch GPG keys during runtime.
.TP
\fB    json_url\fR="https://codeberg.org/bashuser30/dl\-distro/raw/branch/master/data.json"
Change the URL used when updating the JSON file.
.RE

.RS
You can also override data in the JSON file by placing it in the config
directory. dl-distro will use this file over the one stored in the data
directory. \fBNOTE:\fR dl-distro can not update your modified file.
.RE

.TP
.B DATA DIRECTORY
The data directory is \fI$XDG_DATA_HOME/dl-distro\fR. If
\fB$XDG_DATA_HOME\fR is unset, the directory will be
\fI$HOME/.local/share/dl-distro\fR.

This directory is used to store the GPG keys, Minisign keys, Signify keys and
the JSON file.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs on Codeberg https://codeberg.org/bashuser30/dl-distro/issues.

.SH AUTHORS
bashuser30 <bashuser30@mailbox.org>
